Zoe Grant
Creative Coding curated submission explanations. 

#1 Water - TOUCH DESIGNER, Week 9
This code is one of my first real experiences with feedback loops and how they can interact with noise. I like how they can create distinct patterns that look so fluid and graceful, but are reletively easy to create. This code was also when I started to really understand using the edge tool to pick up the edges of noise, blur them, and compose them over the top of already exisiting shapes to create a glowing effect. This particular aspect of coding was invaluble, as extracting only the edges of noise is such an effective and simple way to create dynamic patterns in pretty much any context  - and ever since learning this I have definitely made sure to include edge if I feel like my design needs more flare or interest. I also utilsed displacing with noise, and loved experimenting with the fun and 'wobbly' shapes this can make, especially when combined with movement. This design almost looks like the apple screensavers, so, to develop this learning further I would love to find a way to create new backgrounds or website frontpages using this type of swirling, glowing noise as a graphic, due its eye catching, yet soothing and magnetic feel with a random hypnotic nature. 

#2 Kūmara squares - TOUCH DESIGNER, Week 8
This code is my favorite example of creating a moving mosiac pattern using the comp and tile tools. Using the tile function and two transform functions to manipulate the scale of the tiled squares visible to me, I composited these both over one another to create a vibrant twisting pattern. I loved witnessing how starting with such simple shapes like a square or a diamond can lead to such complex patterns when overlayed, rotated or moved - espcially when you are able to see all the layers underneath the surface one. It was interesting to see how moving the square outside of the frame can cause it to look almost circular when put through the tile TOP, and how depending on what section of the shapes are in contact with each other, the colour it appears to be will change. This is due to the composite operation I used - a really useful peice of learning within this code. This was probably one of the most benifical skills I gained, as in one simple step the enitre nature of the code can change. There are also so many different operations, each with completely varying effects. So, if I ever feel unhappy or unsatisified with my code, simply running it through compisite and changing the operation can have some really interesting effects. To develop this learning further I would love to keep experimenting with all the different composite operations, as I feel I didn't see its full potential. I also feel as if this would make a really unique art peice or lighting instilation of some sort if attached to a projector - which could be a technique to use when I have to bring some flare to a presentation. 

#3 Weird fishes - TOUCH DESIGNER, Week 9 (the audio to this is attached in a seperate file)
This code was my first introduction to making a real audio reactive pattern. I used a tile pattern with rectangles - however the movement, rotation, placement, and the centre point of the rectangles are controlled by the beat of the Radiohead song 'Weird Fishes' - causing the entire mosaic to pulse as the song plays. I had to use a video to figure out how to make the audio file usable within TOP's, however this was probaby more complicated then it needed to be and involved using envelopes and triggers. After learning more about how to deal with audio files within code in class, if I were to go back and redo this I would of probably just used an 'audioanalysis' and a math to smooth out the frequency, to make it easier for myself. Imputting the audio within the parameters of shapes reminded a lot of using noise to generate movement, and because I had good experience with this in my previous codes it was a relatively easy prosses. In this particular code I love how the audio triggered movement interacts with the composite operation, as I feel I have matched the colour and style of the code to the overall feel of the song really well. The movement is quite jerky though, and doesn't quite go with the song all the time, I would like to find a way to refine this. I have loved being able to use audio within my code however, and it brings a more intentional feel to the design which I really like. If I were to develop this learning further, I would like to use it within a context - such as background graphics for a concert or festival. 

#1 Swirling Ovals - p5.js, Week 6
This code is a mix of for loop and translation functions to create lines of ellipses moving in a twisting pattern that rotates around a centre point. I love the hazy, overlapping trail each ellipse creates, especially when combined with colour. This was one of my first trials with using noise in a colour context, as I wasn't aware it could create colours that slowly fade into one another. This learning came in very handy as a base foundation of noise knowledge when I swapped to Touch Designer, as I was able to understand the basic idea of it and how it generates numbers with closer relationships than random does. 

#2 Vortex - p5.js, Week 6
This code was focused on using rotate and translate functions overlapped ontop of one another. Becuase this code required a lot of overlaying of shapes, I gained a really good understanding of how to set out my code, and how to utilise the push and pop functions. This did translate into Touch Designer quite well, as I had to know with what order to connect tops, sops, and other functions to each other - particularily when using composite - in order to produce the design I was intending to. This code is also a good example to me of how colour can have a big effect on the style of the code, and how it can be used to highlight certain layers or features very well. If I were to develop this learning further I would like to encorporate another moving aspect into the code, particularily in the shapes themselves to generate a more complex look. 

#3 Worm - p5.js, Week 5
This code really helped solidify my understanding of noise, as it was a very clear representative of how noise choses values of closer proximity to each other compaired to the random function, and how this can be translated into creating a smoother moving shape. Having this shown to me in physical form was very helpful, espcially when I compaired it to the random code I had made previously - noise just made the ellipse move so much nicer and more intentionally. The ellipse in this code has it's x and y values determined by noise, whilst its r,g,b values are random. It is very easy to see the difference between the sporadically changing fill colours compaired to the smoothly moving ellipse trail, so it was a very helpful peice of code for me that contributed to my overall coding knowledge. 











Then click "commit changes", then select "Commit directly to the main branch" and click "commit changes" again to save your text.
